---
layout: page
title: "Results & Conclusion"
---

# Results and Conclusion 
This project aimed to build models to explain neighborhood change between 1990 and 2010. The harmonized Longitudinal Tracts Data Base was used with census data to identify potential variables as indicators of gentrification. 

From 1990 to 2000 there was a 6% growth in home value on average. Our first iteration we chose gentrification post-markers as an increase in pay, decrease in families with children in poverty, and decrease in percentage renters of housing units. Through this analysis, we identified 11,538 tracts that were potentially gentrified. We noticed with our chosen city of San Diego, the higher home tracts were mostly dispersed around the outskirts of the city and the above average homes made the most gains. 

From 2000 to 2010, there was a 33% growth in home value on average. For our variables predicting neighborhood change in 2000 to 2010, we decided to switch to percent college educated, percent Black population, and percent unemployed. We adjusted these variables for skew and multicollinearity. We also used a fixed effects model to account for variation in the intercepts by metro area. Percent unemployed had the strongest correlation to change in median home value. 

Next, federal programs NMTC and LIHTC were added to the analysis. The New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program enables economically distressed, typically low income, communities to leverage private investment capital by providing investors with a federal tax credit. The communities must have a 20% or more poverty rate and 80% or below median family income. is the most important resource for creating affordable housing in the United States today. Through the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program, developers must make some units for lower income families at below market rent. While there are no strict rules for specific tracts that must be used, by design, the affordable housing developments are created in low- or middle-income neighborhoods. The LIHTC has 47,511 projects and $3.13 million housing units placed in service between 1987 and 2017. Through the analysis, we can see that NMTC does target tracts that have higher poverty percentage with an average of 27% than LIHTC with an average of 19% but both are within the lower income range. Tracts that received LIHTC were 47,302 compared to 35,792 for NMTC. We used a logged difference-in-difference model to estimate the impact of each. With a secular trend of 23%, the treatment group for NMTC grew 10% more than the baseline group, while the treatment group for LIHTC grew 1% more than the baseline group. The three variables chosen of percent college educated, percent Black population, and percent unemployed, were all significant in both the NMTC and LIHTC models. The percent college educated had a significant positive relationship with median home value growth while percent Black population has a significant negative relationship. Percent unemployed ended up having a positive relationship so it is important to consider that all of these variables could have multicollinearity or interference from other variables not included in this analysis. NMTC’s model for low-income housing resulted in higher median home value growth than the secular trend, and it may be inferred that this leads to value improvement of neighborhoods, because home prices tend to reflect the quality of life value of the neighborhoods. It is possible that they chose tracts strategically in areas that would have seen growth anyway, and less people in poverty actually benefited from these programs. 

Determining which variables have the most impact on gentrification is a difficult task and one that may not be used universally to apply to every neighborhood in the U.S. Our analysis showed that percent college educated, percent Black population, and percent unemployed were significant variables but likely do not capture the whole picture. 
