{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red245\green245\blue245;\red245\green245\blue245;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red242\green242\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c96863\c96863\c96863;\cssrgb\c96863\c96863\c96863;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c96078\c96078\c96078;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Lab 03 -  Descriptive Analysis\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs40\fsmilli20400 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Part 01 - Change in Home Values\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 For Part 01 of the lab, we reproduced the descriptive analysis of changes in median home values for periods 1990 to 2000.\'a0
\f2\b Note that only urban tracts were used for our analysis. 
\f0\b0 We tried to differentiate between median home value changes in time periods 1990 to 2000 and 2000 and 2010. 
\f1\fs40\fsmilli20400 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs40\fsmilli20400 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Part 02 - Measuring Gentrification\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 In a previous lab, we conceptualized gentrification.\
We create a new variable in our dataset that allows us to operationalize gentrification and examine its prevalence in the data. We identified which census tracts, by our definition of tracts that would be eligible for gentrification.  Of those, we also determined which actually became gentrified. \
We measured gentrification as increase in pay, decrease in family poverty, and decrease in percent renters in housing units. \
Reasons that gentrification marker variables were chosen: \
A) Increase in pay - Median household income has been identified as a change factor in gentrification. \cb4 \outl0\strokewidth0  (Urban Displacement, https://github.com/DS4PS/cpp-528-spr-2020/blob/master/articles/gentrification/gentrification-methodology.pdf)\cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
B) Family poverty - Families with children in poverty have been identified as vulnerable to gentrification (Urban Displacement, https://github.com/DS4PS/cpp-528-spr-2020/blob/master/articles/gentrification/gentrification-methodology.pdf)\
C) Decrease in percent renters: Home ownership \cb4 \outl0\strokewidth0  has been identified as a change factor in gentrification.  (Urban Displacement, https://github.com/DS4PS/cpp-528-spr-2020/blob/master/articles/gentrification/gentrification-methodology.pdf)\
\cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f3\fs26 \cf5 \cb6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs40\fsmilli20400 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Part 03 - Spatial Patterns\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Histograms and scatterplots were generated to show data arrangement regarding median home value.\
We prepared a Dorling Cartogram shapefile so that data distribution according to population could be visualized. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Home Values
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 We located high and low-value tracts located in the city/cities\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}We \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 compared values in 2000 to changes in values from 1990-2000.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}We determined where the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  largest gains occur in tracts with regard to median home value.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 Gentrification
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}We \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 created a map that highlights tracts that are candidates for gentrification in 2000 and tracts that gentrify between 1990 and 2000, and found meaningful patterns in where gentrification occurs (Southern areas of San Diego)\
}